---
title: i18n
layout: doc
group: core
---

A tiny i18n module for translating your Cordova app.

It will:

* detect the language
* load the resource file
* bind your HTML template

---

# Usage

This module is included in **phonon-core.js**.

## RequireJS Compatible

	require(['phonon-core'], function(phonon)) {
	    phonon.i18n(...);
	});


## Create JSON Files for each Language to Support

<pre><code class="language-markup">directory/en.json
directory/en-US.json
directory/fr.json
directory/es.json
...
</code></pre>

## Binding Attributes

Use the **text** binding to set text content.

<pre><code class="language-markup">&lt;h1 data-i18n=&quot;text: my_json_key&quot;&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;</code></pre>

Use the **value** binding to set input values.

<pre><code class="language-markup">&lt;input type=&quot;text&quot; data-i18n=&quot;value: my_json_key&quot;&gt;</code></pre>

Use the **placeholder** biding to set input placeholders.

<pre><code class="language-markup">&lt;input type=&quot;text&quot; data-i18n=&quot;placeholder: my_json_key&quot;&gt;</code></pre>


## App Setup

**Navigation and i18n options** are defined in the **app options**.

    phonon.options({

        navigator: {
            defaultPage: 'home',
            animatePages: true,
            enableBrowserBackButton: true,
            templateRootDirectory: ''
        },

        i18n: { // i18n: null if you do not want to use internationalization
            directory: 'res/lang/',
            localeFallback: 'en',
            localePreferred: 'en-US'
        }
    });

* directory is the directory where JSON files are stored.
* localeFallback is the default language that is loaded if the language of the operating system is not available.
* localePreferred is the preferred language. It is optional.

## Bind the Document

Look into the DOM elements containing the attribute data-i18n and set the data of the language file that is used.

No callback.

	phonon.i18n().bind();

With callback.

	phonon.i18n().bind(function() {
		...
	});

## Bind an Element Only

No callback.

	phonon.i18n().bind(document.querySelector('.my-element'));

With callback.

	phonon.i18n().bind(document.querySelector('.my-element'), function() {
		...
	});

## Retrieve all the JSON file to work with

Returns the data of the language file that is used.

	phonon.i18n().getAll(function(json) {
		...
	});

## Retrieve one or several value(s)

Returns the key's value or the values of an array of keys

	phonon.i18n().get('my_key', function(value) {
		...
	});

	phonon.i18n().get(['my_key_1', 'my_key_two'], function(values) {
		...
	});


## Update i18n attributes in HTML templates automatically

This function permits to update all your HTML templates when another language is choosen by the user.

	phonon.updateLocale('new-language');

## setPreference(String newLanguage)

Sets the preferred language.

## getPreference()

Returns the current preferred language.

## getLocale()

Returns the browser/operation system's language.
